today i'm going to explain a science
fiction film called downsizing
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
the movie begins in edvardson institute
norway a group of scientists are researching
a procedure of some sort we see dr jurgen and
his colleague andreas excitedly talk about an
experiment that has been successful the two
hugging excitement cut to five years later
andreas is presenting their study to an auditorium
full of people in a convention center in italy
he has a box with himself that he carefully
sits on the podium he then gives the audience
a speech about the negative effects of global
warming and scarcity of food and water it causes
he goes on to explain that their project will
not just reduce global warming but also solve the
problem of scarcity of natural supplies he says
that this is the only practical and humane remedy
to mankind's gravest problem he then proceeds to
reveal what is inside the box the audience gasps
when they see a tiny dr jurgen in the box he looks
like any normal human being but smaller in size
no one can believe their eyes they stand up
to get a better view of dr jurgen dr jurgen
asks everyone to take a seat a tiny microphone
stands in front of him and he starts speaking
he says that five years ago he and his team
developed a procedure that reduces all organic
material to cellular level by a ratio of seven
hundred forty four to one using this process
dr jurgen had turned minuscule the procedure was
tested on a large number of plants and animals
and they have found out that the procedure is
irreversible but has no side effects at all
thirty-six volunteers joined dr jurgens team and
they have been living life as a small person ever
since the procedure only requires the removal
of dental and other prosthetics the person fully
recovers after an hour or two after being turned
small they then bring out the 36 volunteers of
the project who are now small people they have
lived in the world's first small colony for
the past four years they have also birthed a
little baby the audience clapped in admiration
this is the biggest discovery in history the
concept of downsizing is now introduced people
from around the world watch the television in
shock as they broadcast attractive advertisements
about the discovery they encourage everyone to go
minuscule to save the planet and for a better life
paul saffernick is one of the viewers
he watches the advertisement in awe
he goes home to his sick mother she is the only
person in paul's life she complains about the
downsizing program saying that the same energy
must be put into finding the cure for illness
it is now 10 years later paul's mother has long
passed on paul now works as an occupational
therapist and is married to his wife audrey
safranick the couple is struggling financially
the two have to relocate to a new home
because of their financial problems
meanwhile the downsizing program has become
more and more popular through the years
several minuscule colonies have been
established throughout the world
three percent of the world has gone through
downsizing and currently lives in those colonies
one day the safranex go to their high school
reunion there they meet their old friends dave
and carol johnson who have downsized after the
reunion they gather at a friend's house where
the johnsons boast about it being the best
decision they have ever made in their life
they now live in a minuscule colony in new
mexico called the leisureland when paul praises
dave for doing so much for the environment dave
reveals that he only did it for the money after
downsizing expenses dropped by 90 dave used to
be broke in vegas before they decided to downsize
now the two are going on a six-month trip to
italy and living their best life in a huge mansion
interested in the miniature life the following
day paul and audrey go to a leisureland convention
there a downsized man explains to
them the benefits of being downsized
he shows them the house of his dreams right
in front of him the miniature house opens to
reveal a luxurious interior a woman is inside
the house who boasts about her diamond jewelry
that cost her only 83 dollars paul and audrey are
fascinated by the luxurious life of the miniatures
they then go to a viewing area where they look
over the leisureland the colony is covered with
nets to keep away mosquitoes and harmful uv rays
the couple watch in awe and decide that they too
will downsize they meet an agent who tells them
that in leisureland their 152 thousand dollars is
12 million dollars to live on paul and audrey are
stunned later we see them selling their belongings
in a yard sale so that they can sell everything
and live as miniatures later that day they meet
at a pub where their friends and family wish them
goodbye later that night the two keep their rings
in a box to be brought to their miniature house
when they relocate the following day they drive to
the leisureland convention where they will undergo
downsizing however audrey seems to be doubtful of
the decision the two are separated in the waiting
room paul is taken for the procedure before audrey
they are told that they will meet after the
procedure when they are already downsized at
the beginning of the procedure they shave paul's
head and eyebrows off as those cannot be downsized
then they change him into hospital gowns and
sedate him to trim all the hair on his body
they do the same to several other men beside paul
since downsizing cannot be performed with dental
prosthetics they perform a dental surgery
on everyone and remove the prosthetic teeth
they are then taken to the incubation hall where
the downsizers are kept naked the doors to the
hall close after some time it opens and
we see everyone inside has been downsized
now they are scooped up gently with a spatula
and put into miniature beds then they are handed
down to small nurses from the leisureland their
dental prosthetics are put back into their cavity
finally the procedure is done and the newly
downsized people are sent to rest when paul wakes
up he is alone in the waiting room a nurse greets
him she also gives him a huge cracker as a gift
he asks for audrey's whereabouts so the
nurse goes to look for her she comes in
with a phone sometime later audrey speaks from
the other end she frantically tells paul that
they shaved her head and eyebrows then we see a
bald audrey with only one eyebrow at the airport
paul is shocked as it turns out that audrey ran
away as they started shaving her eyebrows she has
decided to not downsize at the very last moment
the two yell at each other through the phone paul
is now alone in the new city of miniatures he is
guided to his luxury mansion but he now has to
live there alone it is now a year later paul has
divorced audrey and settled into a new apartment
he had anticipated an easy life but the
divorce settlement took away half of his assets
he currently works in a call center and is
dating a girl named kristen one night they
are in paul's room having dinner when paul's
upstairs neighbor doosan comes in to inform him
that he is holding a party later kristen and paul
break up prompting him to attend doosan's party
paul has the time of his life he kisses
a random girl and accepts a pill from her
the drug starts to take paul over
and he enjoys himself the whole night
the following morning he wakes up under a table
at dooson's apartment the cleaning workers arrive
one of the workers who limps catches paul's
eyes since he is an occupational therapist
he asks her to sit down and helps her with her
prosthetic legs paul recognizes the worker is
not glenn tran a vietnamese political activist
who was jailed and downsized against her will
not land story was broadcasted worldwide then
but eventually it died down knockland takes paul
to her neighborhood to check on people there even
though he is a physical therapist and not a doctor
paul sees that the place she lives is in
extreme poverty even though they are miniatures
there paul helps knock lane with her
prosthetic leg but accidentally breaks it
as a result of his screw-up knock lan makes him
do her cleaning job until her new prosthetic legs
arrive paul goes to work with knock lin
every day and does the cleaning for her
they collect the leftover food from the people
they work for and bring it back to knock lands
community to distribute it between the poors
paul sees the good in knocklan even though she is
suffering herself she doesn't forget to help other
people in her community one day knock lan gets a
cleaning job at doosan's doosan is surprised to
see paul working as a cleaner and makes fun of him
paul informs him that he has to do this for
next six weeks to a month seeing his friend
suffer duesson decides to help him he offers paul
a chance to get away by joining him and his friend
yours conrad and going to norway where the first
small community was created however noclan insists
that she wants to go to because she was called
by the doctor who started this all dr jurgen
the doctor too lives in the same colony and
wanted to meet knock land because of her
heroic protests in vietnam the boys almost do not
believe her but they eventually leave for norway
cut to a few days later all of them are traveling
in a fjord in dussensyart they suddenly encounter
dr jurgen and his wife in their own yacht going to
the colony as well naklan finally meets dr jurgen
who apologizes to her because his procedure was
used wrongfully on her there the group is informed
about the methane release in antarctica that
will increase global warming by a vast percentage
this cannot be stopped and because of mass
overpopulation the human race will eventually
become extinct in 100 years the downsizing was
made to reduce the possibility to some extent but
only three percent of the whole world is downsized
dr jurgen is devastated that his creation was too
late to save the world the damage is irreversible
later knock lan and paul are together in her cabin
paul checks her legs one thing leads
to another and they end up having sex
the following morning they finally reach the
first colony it is a tiny village where people
live in harmony they are welcomed wholeheartedly
there the villagers have created a large vault
inside a mountain to insulate the colony and
preserve humanity in the event of an extinction
the whole village along with dr jurgen and
his wife planned to go inside the vault the
following day inspired by dr jurgen's words halto
wants to go with the colony he feels as though
he was brought there for a reason so when knock
asks him to come back with her he denies doosan
and yours too are returning back to their home
it is now the following day a few hours before
everyone migrates to the vault knock asked paul
if he had sex with her because he pities her
paul replies that he really cares about her
but the wolf gives his life a purpose the
time finally comes paul says his farewell and goes
into the vault while the other three stand outside
however paul changes his mind midway he likes not
too much to leave for the vault he comes back and
hugs her soon a vault's door closes forever the
four of them return to leisureland back there
noc and paul live their lives together while
helping the people of knox community living in
slums subscribe for more videos like this turn on
notifications and leave a like to help the channel